>> Jason Pamental: So there's one
more example that I wanted to show.
And this is also one of
the pages that you have in here.
This is, again, trying to get the most
variation out of the typographic system.
But also think about some editorial and
art direction that you
might see in a publication.
So looking at this page,
you might think okay,
it's nothing groundbreaking but
sort of a typical outdoorsy,
blog, news media kind of site,
that's fine.
It's nice to load a photo, but
you might have a storyline to go with it.
So you might design it to have
the headline layer over it, and
then put a little bit of a faded drop
shadow on there just to kinda pull it away
from the background a little bit.
Again, it's nothing new here,
every website in the world is
doing something like that.
That's not what they would
do in a magazine though,
in a magazine it might look
a little bit more like this.
But this is a webpage, and
it really wasn't that hard to do.
So this is just, again,
layering some techniques.
We have the background photo.
I took that photo into Photoshop, and I
just erased the skyline around the rocks,
saved it as a PNG with transparency.
So we have a background photo,
layer of text, and
then the transparent
ground image on top of it.
Now, obviously file size is a concern, so
you have to be careful how you think about
how you put this stuff into practice.
But, watch how it scales.
>> Jason Pamental: So
you can see this was all done
with two font files to get all of
that variety in the text styles.
And then watch what happens
when that main element scales.
Because they're all three separate
elements, just by scaling the text and
just changing the font
variation properties,
it keeps everything really readable.
But it creates a really nice
editorial effect that's unlike
pretty much anything that you're
gonna see on the web right now.
I've never run across a site
that's doing anything like this.
But you see this in
magazines all the time.
So it's a really nice impact.
You want it to be a sustainable thing, so
two file uploads and a text field,
that's pretty sustainable.
And what designer doesn't
know how to use Photoshop?
That's really all it takes.
So I mean, this is actually something that
I think could really be put to good use.
Again, layering these techniques to
take things past where we are now,
make websites interesting.
Make the design something more
than a bunch of scaling cards.
I think we can do a lot more.
We just really have to stop and
think, how would this work,
then how would it work in a system?
How do we break it down into
components that are sustainable and
easy to use, and
then still give the right control?
So we'd probably want to have some
typographic controls for that headline.
We wanna be able to
differentiate it a little bit.
If you look at a publication and
look at six issues of that publication,
study how they put those
photos together with the text.
They're going to have certain
ways that they go about it.
Different weights, different widths,
different techniques for
shadowing, all of those things
are rules that you can decode.
Again, it doesn't matter if you
have a design background or not.
It's just knowing what to look for in type
pairing, in editorial design techniques.
You know how to research,
it's just go and take a look,
see systematically how they go
about doing some of these ideas.
And then,
knowing what you know about CSS Grid,
about variables,
variable fonts, calculations,
what are the different techniques that
you could layer together to create
this much more interesting approach
that's still a sustainable practice?